 Please refer below mentioned examples of cases with guidelines for your ready reference and understanding
annotation process and this task will be given to you in a spreadsheet form.
Clause
Case name
Intellectual Property licensing
CIT Vs MS V.R.V. BREWERIES & BOTTLING INDUSTRIES LTD
Contract Clause 6. TRADE MARKS AND MARKETING 6.1 The trade marks, brand names, design and the get
up in which the IMFL products will be sold, supplied and delivered by the UNIT and in
particular and not limited to those listed in APPENDIX „C‟ hereto shall always be the sole
property of Shaw Wallace or its associate or related companies as the case may be.  6.2
The UNIT hereby acknowledges and accepts that the UNIT never had nor has any right,
title or interest therein and shall not at any time claim any right whatsoever to the use of
the labels, brand names, trade marks and or get up of the IMFL products belonging to
Shaw Wallace or to the nominees associates of Shaw Wallace except under written
permission from Shaw Wallace.  6.3 Shaw Wallace hereby authorizes the UNIT as a
licensee, under a separate agreement to manufacture, process package and sell the IMFL
products of various brands of Shaw Wallace as contained in the APPENDIX „C‟ and such
other brands as may be agreed upon from time to time for which Shaw Wallace or its
associate or related or nominee company own or will own valid trademark registrations in
India or otherwise which names, brands, etc. belong to or are associated with Shaw
Wallace or any such other companies mentioned above.  6.4 Shaw Wallace from time to
time advise the UNIT as to the marketing arrangement for IMFL of brand names belonging
to Shaw Wallace or brands designated by the Shaw Wallace and the UNIT shall act in
accordance with the directions of Shaw Wallace in so far as the sale of above brands of
IMFL.  6.5 Nothing herein contained or implied shall be construed as precluding in any
manner Shaw Wallace or its associated companies or related companies as the case may
be from using or licencing the use of the said trademarks or brand names or get up on any
goods including IMFL in India of elsewhere.
Indian Kanoon link https://indiankanoon.org/doc/412799
Has additional
clauses?
YES-
2. ARRANGING FOR SPIRIT AND UTILISATION THEREOF-PAGE NO. 2
2.1, .2.2, 2.3, 2.4,
3. MANUFACTURE/BOTTLING OF IMFL -PAGE NO. 2
3.1 TO 3.7 -CONTINUING IN PAGE NO. 3.
4. EXCISE FORMALITIES: -4.1 TO 4.4 PAHE NO. 3.
7. CONSIDERATION- 7.1 TO 7.3 PAGE NO. 4.
8. DURATION, TERMINATION AND CONSEQUENCES TEHREOF 8.1 xxxx 8.2 xxxx PAGE NO.
5.
11. ASSIGMENT-PAGE NO. 5.
CONSIDERATION-PAGE NO. 5
Discussion 22.2 The observation made in paragraph 58 at page 414 of the aforementioned judgment,
on which reliance has been placed by the learned counsel for revenue seeks only to
emphasise that the assessee in that case, had only acquired access to technology which
was not related to any secret process or patent rights and thus in continuum it is
mentioned that not even a right to use the trademark or brand name had inhered in the
assessee. From this, it cannot be concluded, as is sought to be done by the learned counsel
for the revenue that any payment made for use of
trademark or trade name ipso facto will give colour to the payment as if it is made on
capital account. This is in our view is a complete mis-reading of the judgment. It is well
settled that a judgment is an authority for what it decides and not what is Construed as
logically flowing from it. Judgments cannot be read as statutes. A stray sentence picked out
of context, cannot be used to turn its ratio around. 22.3 We have already referred to the
provisions of the agreement. A perusal of the provisions of the agreement would show all
that the assessee acquired was the use of the brand names and the trade marks of SWCL,
which find a mention in Appendix-C annexed to the
said agreement. The assessee acquired no right to any secret process or formulate or even
any right title and interest in the trade marks and brands under which the IMFL products
were sold. As a matter of fact assessees rights were co-terminus with the subsistence of
the said agreement. Therefore, we have no hesitation in rejecting the contention of the
revenue in this regard. On this issue Ms Rashmi Chopra had referred to the fact that the
copy of the separate agreement had not been supplied by the assessee and, therefore,
Tribunal ought to have drawn an adverse inference
against the assessee. To test the veracity and seriousness of this submission we had called
upon Ms Rashmi Chopra to show from the record whether such a ground had been taken in
either their appeal filed before the Tribunal against the order of CIT(A) for assessment year
1998-99 or in the appeal filed before us. Ms Rashmi Chopra was unable to refer to any
such ground. It is quite evident that the Revenue took the stand, though erroneously, that
royalty paid on use of brand names and trade marks would classify the expenditure as one
made on capital account.
Sentiment Positive & Neutral
Clause Termination
Case name MS REVA ELECTRIC CAR CO.P.LTD. v. MS GREEN MOBIL
7. Guidelines regarding column on discussion paragraphs.
• Use the most succinct discussion of the contract Provide the ratio/conclusion in cases where it discusses the
contract.
• You can use the Indian Kanoon segmentation feature to see if the ratio/conclusion discusses the contractual clause
to enhance speed in identifying the paragraph, but this Indian Kanoon feature may not be accurate in all cases.
• You can also use the section headings in the judgments to identify where the discussion would lie. Additionally, note
that the most succinct discussion is usually at the end of the section.
• Do not include what arguments have been made by the petitioner.
Contract Clause "11. Governing Law and Jurisdiction - 5 -  i. This MOU shall be construed and enforced in
accordance with the laws of India. ii. In the event of any dispute or difference arising at
any time between the parties hereto as to the construction, meaning or effect of this
Agreement or thing contained herein or the rights, duties, liabilities and obligations of the
parties hereto in relation to this Agreement, the same shall be referred to a single
arbitrator, in case the parties can agree upon one (1) within a period of thirty days upon
being called by a party to do so and failing such agreement to three (3) arbitrators one (1)
each to be appointed by GREENMOBIL and RECC and the third to be appointed by the two
arbitrators so appointed. The award passed by such arbitrator(s) shall be final and binding
on both the parties.
Indian Kanoon link https://indiankanoon.org/doc/233181
Has additional
clauses
Yes- Clause-2 Page No. 5
Discussion I have noted the guidelines for the exercise of the power, preamble, relevant sections from which the
reasons should be inferred and recorded, although they need not be communicate. These should be
recorded in order to ensure effective judicial review in a given case. Termination simpliciter under
Regulation 9(b) or similar powers can be exercised only in circumstances other than those in regulation9
(a). The exercise of such powers can only be for purposes germane and relevant to the statute. There
are several illustrations of that, namely, the employee is incompetent or unsuitable so as to make his
continuance in the employment detrimental to the interest of the institu- tion, where the continuance of
the employee is a grave security risk making his continuance detrimental to the interest of the
Corporation and where because of the conduct of the employee, there is lack of confidence in the
employee which makes it necessary in the interest of the Corporation to immediately terminate the
services of the employee. These, however, are illustrative and not exhaustive. There- fore, each case of
the conferment of the power involved should be decided on the aforesaid basis.  38. At the cost of
repetition it is to reiterate that when the authority intends to take disciplinary action for imposing penalty
of dismissal, removal or reduction in rank of an employee, an elaborate procedure has been provided in
Regulation 15 to conduct an enquiry into misconduct after giving reasonable opportunity. Residuary
power has been avowedly conferred in Regulation 9(b) with wide discretion on the appropriate authority
to take actions on similar set of facts but without any guidelines or procedure at the absolute discretion
of the same authority. The language of Regulation 9(b) is not capable of two interpretations. This power
appears to be in addition to the normal power in Regulation 15. Thereby the legislative intention is
manifest that it intended to confer such draconian power couched in language of width which hangs like
Damocles sword on the neck of the employee, keeping every employee on tenterhook under constant
pressure of uncertainty,
precarious tenure at all times right from the date of appointment till date of superannuation. It equally
enables the employer to pick and choose an employee at whim or vagary to terminate the serv- ice
arbitrarily and capriciously. 39. Regulation 9(b), thereby deliberately conferred wide power of termination
of services of the employee without following the principle of audi alteram partem or even modicum of
procedure of representation before terminating the services of permanent employee. It is well settled rule
of statutory construction that when two interpretations are possible one which would preserve and save
constitutionality of a particular Statute, would be preferred to the other that would render it
unconstitutional and void. When the language is clear, unambiguous and specific and it does not lead to
the constructions, it is not permissible to read into those provisions something which is not intended. It is
undoubtedly true as rightly contended by Mr. Ashok Desai, the learned Solicitor General that the power
to take appropriate and expeditious action to meet the exigencies of weeding out inefficient, corrupt,
indolent officers or employees from service should be provided and preserved to the competent
authority. Any action taken without any modicum of reasonable procedure and prior oppor- tunity always
generates an unquenchable feeling that unfair treatment was meted out to the aggrieved employee. To
pre- vent miscarriage of justice or to arrest a nursing grievance that arbitrary, whimsical or capricious
action was taken behind the back of an employee without opportunity, the law must provide a fair, just
and reasonable procedure as is exigible in a given circumstances as adumbrated in proviso to Art.
311(2) of the Constitution.

43. In view of the march of law made by Art. 14, in particular after Maneka Gandhi's case, it is too late in
the day to contend that the competent authority would be vested with wide discretionary
power without any proper guidelines or the procedure. The further contention that the preamble, the
other rules and the circumstances could be taken aid of in reading down the provisions of the
impugned rules or the regulations is also of no assistance when it is found that the legislative intention is
unmistakably clear, unambiguous and specific. Thus considered, I have no hesitation to conclude that
the impugned regulation 9(b) of the Regula- tions are arbitrary, unjust, unfair and unreasonable offend-
ing Arts. 14, 16(1), 19(1)(g) and 21 of the Constitution. It is also opposite to the public policy and thereby
is void under Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act.
Sentiment Negative & Struck Down
• Do not include the law governing the issue (e.g. Contract Act, Sale of Goods Act) and specifically avoid the
quotations in this regard.
• Do not include the lengthy discussions on case law (shepharding by the court).
• Do not include or reiterate what lower courts has discussed.
• Relevant clause can be more than one paragraph in different places of judgment as well.
8. Write neutral or positive in all cases where the challenge did not succeed.
• Write neutral or positive in all cases where the challenge did not succeed.
• Write negative in all cases where the contractual clause was struck down.
• This criteria will seek to only identify whether the clause was invalid or not. Hence, in most cases it will be "neutral
or positive"
• You can use numbering as either 1 for "neutral or positive" or 2 for "negative or struck down"
• Criteria for negative includes striking down because of legal invalidity (such as opposed by public policy), but also
includes any substantial change made to the contract (such as by giving different interpretation than parties
proposed).